 ## Searching with `fuzziness` set to auto
 
 `fuzziness` param makes it possible to perform searches that match queries even if there are typos.
 
 ```
 GET /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "name": {
        "query": "l0bster",
        "fuzziness": "auto"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
We get the results because we allow a number of characters to be inserted, deleted or substituted. Fuzziness is implemented by calculating something called the **Levenshtein distance** which is referred as the edit distance. Suppose that we have 2 words: `lobster` and `l0bster`. The edit distance beetween the two is then the minimumum number of single character edits that are needed to change one of the words into the other one. A single character edit can either be an insertion, deletion or substitution. In this example, the edit distance would only be one. 

Different algorithms are used for calculating fuzziness. So you cannot compare the `slop` and `fuzziness` parameters because the edit distances are calculated differently. With the Levenshtein distance we're not moving characters around as we were with the match phrase query. The difference between specifying an integer or `auto` to `fuzziness` parameter is the following:

```
Term length   Maximum edit distance
    1-2                 0
    3-5                 1
    >5                  2
```

With "auto"  we are telling ES to automatically handle fuzziness for us. It does so by looking at the length of each term and uses the following rules:

If the length is 1 or 2 then the term must be an exact match, so fuzziness is not used. If the length is between 3 and 5, a max edit distance of 1 is used. And if >5, 2 edits. The max edit distance of 2 is the case for two reasons. First of all, studies havee shown that 80% of human misspellings can be corrected with an added distance of just 1. So a value of 1 or 2 will catch almost all mistakes. Secondly, being able to specify a higher fuzziness value would quickly reduce performance. Also, a higher fuzziness value would mean that you would begin to see strange and unpredictable results. For instance, if we enter a term consisting of 5 characters and we are able to specify a max edit distance of 4, the results will be all over the place. So clearly that wouldn't be a good idea. 

```
GET /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "name": {
        "query": "lobster",
        "fuzziness": "auto"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
The results now contain the doc containing a term `Oyster`. Since the fuzziness parameter is set to `auto` and the length of the query term is 7 and edit distancce of 2 is allowed. To make a word `lobster` match word `Oyster`, we need to first remove the `L` and substitute the `B` with `Y` and that's only 2 edits. 

```
GET /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "name": {
        "query": "l0bster love",
        "operator": "and", 
        "fuzziness": 1
      }
    }
  }
}
```
The idea of this query is to simulate `lobster live`. Fuzziness param is applied to each term individually, value of 1 is enough. 

## Transposition

```
AB -> BA
```

Transposition basically means to switch 2 adjacent characters around. This means that A and B next to each other may be switched around to B followed by A. Transpositions count as a single edit. 

```
LVIE -> LIVE
```

```
GET /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "name": {
        "query": "lvie",
        "fuzziness": 1
      }
    }
  }
}
```

We got a match because transposition here is count as 1 edit. We can disable transpositions by setting `fuzzy_transpositions` param to false. 

```
GET /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "name": {
        "query": "lvie",
        "fuzziness": 1,
        "fuzzy_transpositions": false
      }
    }
  }
}
```
