## Adding synonyms from file

If we have a large amount of synonyms, it becomes hard to maintain because if we want to add or change synonyms we would have to delete index first and also we would end up with a large array of synonyms. To solve these problems, we can define the synonyms within the file. We do that by specifying a param `synonyms_path` containing the path to the file. The file should be a text file containing the same format as in the array. The path should be either an ablsolute path or relative to the config directory. 

## Adding index with custom analyzer

```
PUT /synonyms
{
  "settings": {
    "analysis": {
      "filter": {
        "synonym_test": {
          "type": "synonym",
          "synonyms_path": "analysis/synonyms.txt"
        }
      },
      "analyzer": {
        "my_analyzer": {
          "tokenizer": "standard",
          "filter": [
            "lowercase",
            "synonym_test"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "description": {
        "type": "text",
        "analyzer": "my_analyzer"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Synonyms file (config/analysis/synonyms.txt)

```
# This is a comment

awful => terrible
awesome => great, super
elasticsearch, logstash, kibana => elk
weird, strange
```

## Important notes

The synonyms files should be available on all nodes storing docs for the index using the analyzer. The easiest way is to store the file on all nodes. **Note**, that if you add new synonyms to the file and restart the nodes you might think that everything is good to go. That might be the case, but you might have already indexed docs containing whichever synonym you're adding. Let's see an example:

Step 1. add document `elasticsearch`
Step 2. add synonym `elasticsearch => elk`
Step 3. restart the node
Step 4. search for `elasticsearch`

Suppose we index a doc containing the term `elasticsearch` and then we add a synonym of `elk`. We restart the appropriate node and expect everything to be good. But if we perform a search query for `elasticsearch` it won't match anything.

The reason for this is that at the time of indexing docs there's no synonym for the term `elasticsearch` and the term is added as is to the inverted index. At the later point in time, the synonym is added. That's synonym is effective immediately after restarting a node but only when indexing new docs or updating existing ones. That's because ES picks up the new synonym when restarting a node but does not re-index docs when starting back up. At this point the inverted index contains the term `elasticsearch` which is what we are searching for. 

**So why doesn't the query match?** Because the search goes through the same analysis process as the full text fields do. The part of that process is to look for synonyms. So when we run the search query, ES has picked up the new synonyms. So instead of searching for `elasticsearch`, we are searching for `elk` behind the scenes. And since the inverted index contains the term `elasticsearch`, the doc does not match. 

**So what's the solution?**

It is the `_update_by_query` api. 

```
POST /synonyms/_update_by_query
```

After running the query, the docs will be reindexed. 

