## Overview

* how does ES know on which shards to store documents?
* how are documents found once they have been indexed? 
* the answer is **routing**
* routing is the proocess of resolving a doc's shard both in the context of retrieving the doc but also to figure out on which shard it should be stored in the first placce.

ES uses a simple formula to calculate which shard the dooc should be stored

```
shard_num = hash(_routing) % num_primary_shards
```

`_routing` is by default equals to the document's ID. The same applies when we retrieve or delete documents.

* routing is 100% transparent when using ES
* makes ES easier to use and learn
* it is possible to customize routing though
* this ensures that the docs are distributed evenly acros an index's shards.

If we use the default routing by ID you won't see the "\_routing" field in the metadata.

### Fact

Now we have the answer why the number of shards cannot be changed once an index has been created. If we take a lookk at the routing formula then we can see that if we use a different num_primary_shards then the formula would yield different results. The second reason is that the docs can be distributed unevenly.


## How ES reads data

GET products/_doc/100

The nodes receives a request and is responsible for coordinating the request and is therefore referred as the `coordinating node`

1. Figure out where the doc we are looking for is stored
2. A shard is choosen from the replication group. ES uses a techique called `Adaptive Replica Selectiom (ARS)` for this purpose. It selects the shards copy that is deemed to be the best. So ES tries to select the shard copy that it believes can yield the best performance.
3. Once a shard has been selected, the coordinating node sends the read request to that shard.
4. When the shard response, the coordinating node collects the response and sends it to the client.

* ARS helps reduce query response times
* ARS is essentially an inteligent load balancer

## How ES writes data

PUT products/_doc/100

The request goes the through the same routing process. The difference between sednig the request to the replication group is that write requests are always sent to the primary shard. 

1. The primary shard is first of all responsible for validating the request. It includes validating the structure of the request and validating field values. 
2. The primary shard then performs the write operation locally before forwarding it to the replica shards to keep those up to date as well. To improve performance, it does it in parallel.

### How ES handles failure in the data replications

Since ES is distributed and many operations happen async, a lot of things can go wrong susch as hardware failures. 

**Example**

If there is 1 primary shard and 2 replicas and when the write request is made and the primary shard sends data to the replica shard and then fails, the replica shard is promoted as a primary shard because each replication group must have a primary shard. 

### Primary terms and sequence numbers

**Primary terms**

* a way to distinguish between old and new primary shards
* a counter for how many times the primary shard has changed
* primary term is appended to write operations

In the example above, the primary term would be increased by one. The primary term for all replication groups are persisted in the cluster's state. 

**Sequence numbers**

* this is just a counter that is incremented for each operation
* appended to write operations together with the primary term
* the primary shard is responsible for increasing the sequence number when it processes the write request

**Recovering when a primary shard fails**

* primary terms and sequence numbers are key when ES needs to recover from a primary shard failure
* instead of comparing data on a disc it can use primary terms and sequence numbers to figure our which operations have already been perfromed and which are needed to bring a given shard up to date
* for large indices this process is really expensive. To speed up this process, ES maintainc global and local checkpoints. 

### Global and local checkpoints

* these are both sequence numbers
* a global checkpoint exists for each replication group
* a local checkpoint exists for each replica shard
* global checkpoints is the sequence number that all active shards within a replication group have been aligned at least up to. This means that any operations containing a sequence number lower than the global checkpoint, have already been performed on all shards within the replication group
  - If a primary shard fails and rejoins the cluster at a later point, ES only needs to compare the operations that are above the global checkpoint that it last knew about.
* local checkpoints
  - if a replica shard fails, only the operations that have a sequence number higher then its local checkpoint need to be applied when it comes back. 

This means that to recover, ES only needs to compare the operations that happend while the shard was "gone", instead of the entire history of the replication group.

**Summary**

* write operations are sent to primary shards
* primary shard forwards the operations to its replica shards
* primary terms and sequence numbers are used to recover from failures
* global and local checkpoints help speed up the recovery process
* primary terms and sequence numbers are available within responses











