 Query can be executed in 2 different contexts: **Query Context and Filter Context**
 
 ## Query Context
 
 When we use it, we basically ask ES: **How well the docs match this query?**. ES will still decide whether or not docs match in the first place but a relevant score will also be calculated. This is what we've seen so fat, because we nested a term query clause withi a query object. 
 
 ## Filter Context
 
 We ask ES: **Do documents match?** The docs that do not match will not be the part of the results. The important difference is that with the filter context ES does not calculate the relevance scores. That's because it is a boolean evaluation on either the doc matches or it does not.
 
 The filter context is commonly used in filtering dates, status, ranges etc. For example, to find products that were added more than a month ago that have a status of unpublished. 
 
 So the difference between the query and filter context is that when addin a query class within the query context, relevant scores are calculated, which is not the case for the filter context. 
 
 **So when to use which?**
 
 Say you search for a word "salad" within the title field. If you want documents where the term appears more than once to be more relevant, and all of the other relevant factors to be taken into account, then go for the query context. If you just want to match any document that include the term "salad" regardless of how well they match then you can use the filter context. The reason for that is because it is more efficient to not calculate relevant scores if you don't need them anyways. 
 
 
