Retrieving docs based on the id might not always be enough. This can be accomplished with a query named `has_parent`. This query let's you define a query that a parent doc should match for a child doc to be returned. In other words, the query returns child docs where the parent doc matches some criteria. 
```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_parent": {
      "parent_type": "department",
      "query": {
        "term": {
          "name.keyword": "Marketing"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
`has_parent` also supports relevance score. By default it ignores the relevance score from matching docs, meaning that how well the doc matches has no affect on the relevance scores of the child docs. The default behaviour is that a flat score of 1 is added to the score of each mathcing child doc. We can chaange it by setting an object name `score` to true. 

```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_parent": {
      "parent_type": "department",
      "score": true,
      "query": {
        "term": {
          "name.keyword": "Development"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Now the results have a relevance score. Why does it matter? That's because we can use a `match` query and search through different parent docs, depending on how well they match the query. By setting the score option to true, we ensure that the child docs beloging to the best matchin parent document are scoreed the highest within the results. 

If you need to more control on how the child docs are sorted, you can do this by using a query named `function_score`.

## Sorting

You cannot sort the results of a has_parent query using standard sort options.

If you need to sort returned documents by a field in their parent documents, use a function_score query and sort by \_score. For example, the following query sorts returned documents by the view_count field of their parent documents.

```
GET /_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_parent": {
      "parent_type": "parent",
      "score": true,
      "query": {
        "function_score": {
          "script_score": {
            "script": "_score * doc['view_count'].value"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

[Docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-has-parent-query.html#_sorting_2)
