## Warning


Because it performs a join, the `has_child` is slow compared to other queries. Its performance degrades as the number of matching child documents pointing to unique parent documents increases. Each `has_child` query in a search can increase query time significantly.

If you care about query performance, do not use this query. If you need to use the `has_child` query, use it as rarely as possible.


Let's retrieve the parent doc based on criteria placed on their child docs. We can do it by adding `has_child`. 

```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_child": {
      "type": "employee",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            {
              "range": {
                "age": {
                  "gte": 50
                }
              }
            }. This 
          ],
          "should": [
            {
              "term": {
                "gender.keyword": "M"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

 To recap, with `has_child` we are matching parent docs that contain child docs matchin some criteria. This criteria can be any query that we've learnt so far. 
 
 We can include the relevant scores of mathcing child docs. Unlike `has_parent` field, the option is called `score_mode` and it's not just a boolean value as it name implies. There are five socre modes we can use.  
 
 

### none (Default)

Do not use the relevance scores of matching child documents. The query assigns parent documents a score of 0. 

### avg

Use the mean relevance score of all matching child documents. 

### max

Uses the highest relevance score of all matching child documents. 

### min

Uses the lowest relevance score of all matching child documents. 

### sum

Add together the relevance scores of all matching child documents. 

[Docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-has-child-query.html#_sorting)
